restrict access to a folder and put them in there.
I'm open to suggestions if either of those are better than the others.
Yeah, so, Alan, so you have the mechanism to, let's say, like a
like a Catticus project only allow a list of an email address to be able to access the folder?
Yes, I can restrict it to because we're working in the autonomous networks project space.
Obviously, we don't want everyone on that list to be accessing it. I can do it by name, by email.
By name, email, okay.
That's assuming that the contributors are happy to share it with a group.
as regular participants in those who have signed up to do Viacoys.
So what do you think Pedro or Juan, like in your companies, are you okay to put your
completed questionnaire into the particular folder only accessible by list of an email address?
or the people involving in this ANL project only?
Yes, yes, we can upload our files, no problem.
Okay.
But one comment there, we have our files, our spreadsheets
are in the interpretation questions and understanding options.
They are our understanding in English,
but in other columns,
in other rows and columns,
we add comments in Spanish.
So the thing is not a problem.
>> So some of us will be able to understand it.
>> Yeah.
>> So the apologies, I haven't kicked off the meeting properly.
So the project meeting,
I will randomize the IPR,
if anyone has any IPR to share,
either now or during the call,
please ensure that everyone's aware of that
before you share any IP content.
And if it's all right with everyone,
or record the session as usual,
we can restrict that to the group as well if you want.
- Recording in progress.
- Yeah.
And also let's say for that completed answer,
for example, some sensitive information,
for example, something that you do not want
want to show, you could, you know, you could mark it or, you know, block it or something like that.
Maybe the easiest way we could, I think, email to Alan and Alan you could put that into that
folder once you've created. Yeah, that's fine. I'm happy to do that.
Okay cool. So thank you Ming. Actually sorry let me just bring because I wanted to show the table.
For today call we have planned two presentations. I think Pedro is going to start as presenting the
telephonic responses and then we also have Juan that has completed teleconjuncting responses.
We will analyze these two today. For next week we have STCC, I believe, and then guys, I need to
start getting answers from the rest of the CSPs that are going to be part of this pileup to tell
me which days they want to do their presentation. I think we have before the end of May to do this.
And as we just say, Alan will collect,
if you are happy to share them with Alan,
Alan will collect your completed questionnaires
and eventually they will be uploaded to a page
that it will be restricted to the participants
on the panel.
Okay, so having said this, I think Pedro,
I will stop sharing.
You can start.
Can you see my screen now?
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Okay.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay.
Can you see in that side or put the presentation mode?
>> Presentation.
>> Presentation.
You prefer presentation mode?
>> Yeah.
>> Okay.
Then I would like to show you the results of our piloting in say Telefónica.
First of all, I am going to present the Somes' Lights with the scope and process of that.
We have followed to answer these questionnaires.
First of all, those questions have been covered by those three countries, Brazil, Germany,
Spain for both domains. The professor with a follow-up was, I have had meeting one-to-one
with everybody, with every responsible in each country. I have put no limitations, I
mean they can answer whatever they consider and the only thing I did was to explain how
how to answer the questionary and where to look for the options and so on, but no more.
And they have answered by their own in their time, in their data, their time.
During this process, they gave us the responses in just less than a week, really.
The more difficult thing was to find the right person to answer the question, which has one
question, what was responsible for each domain and for each process.
One thing we have done is just answer process questions.
I mean, in Colorado question, there were both two parts about one about the process and
the other one about the architecture.
And from our say, we have just answered the first one.
And because I put no limitations on the responses
in the columns we have put a lot besides the options,
they have answered maybe one time,
One time they have answered out the question,
they were required and I know that with the evidence.
So there's a bit of complex information in our own.
It's not complex really, but a lot of information,
different information on our questionnaires.
Here you have, well, first of all,
I have responses for three countries in two domains,
but our answer or our conclusion to this pilot
is just a mix of those contours.
I mean, because they are three,
then when two countries responses A and another B,
I put A and in the same, if two countries response B,
then I put B.
So more or less is the methodology I have following me
with the question.
Here you have our responses.
Blue points, that means that I have reviewed
the questions for the answers,
and I have some doubts about the answers.
So this is something that we have to review,
and this is something I think is important to,
from a point of view, is to explain it.
We have to do the effort of explaining a bit more,
a bit more clear what we need in each option because I think they are confused.
And for run, our score is 288 and 274, depending on the methodology.
And for core, for core, for core, questionary is the same methodology,
because I have not answered questions about architecture then I have moved the
weights to have 100% but in the same way.
I think I have to review or we have to review we have to explain a bit more or I
have to help the people who has answered because I think I have some those are
of the responses.
Later on, I can open our responses.
Okay, but first of all, I would like to give you
some conclusions before going deeper in the questionnaires.
I see or we see that they are not about the pilot.
Okay, I have, we have some conclusions about the pilot
and other conclusions or ideas
about the possible assessment tool
and auditory process and so on.
For this pilot, we don't see some substantial difference
between both methodologies or measurement methodologies.
We think or we saw that it could be important
to reevaluate the weights with the scoring of each task.
We need more clear definitions, examples and so on
to look things clear for the people who is
responding or answering the questionnaires.
For me, for us, it's important to have in order to
distribute in a company,
in an operations organization, and so on.
We think it's important to have
the same categories for all questionnaires.
We have to decide if you include intent or not,
but in all the questionnaires for the reason,
because maybe in some cases related to maintenance
and evolution of the NELGORS in fact,
is not going to be a differentiation between domains
and maybe the formal NELGORS is responsible for all of that.
So I think we have to have the same categories
in all of that.
We, as I mentioned before,
we have, we like to separate process from architecture.
One thing is to be possible or to have the possibility
of, or to be included in our process.
And on the other hand is the capabilities.
We need to do that, but it's different.
And one important result we have seen is that
there's some difference between the evolution
we have done internally and those methodologies.
And to be more clear, in run,
We are with this methodology, the pilot methodology,
we are in low level of autonomy as we are,
we are evaluating with our methodology,
but in core we are over the value.
So maybe, I don't know because it's so difficult
to have just with no name questions to be more or to be
so specific, but there are some differences
between with our method.
Okay, another conclusion about the assessment tool
but it's to define the processes code,
it's needed the disability.
And another important thing that people have
or is asking us is, okay, but what means to be level four,
what means level three, it means from the point of view
of capabilities, from the point of view of technological
applications, OSS, whatever, I need to move
from one level to another one.
So first of all, this is how I want ideas,
how we have done the study, how we have response
to the study and our conclusions, okay?
So then if you want, I can go through the responses
of each, I think, of each,
of each question that you want.
- Yeah, I think we can do that quickly, Pedro.
Yeah.
But I don't know.
OK, I can go quickly.
This is the run question.
Yeah.
I'm going to-- sorry.
OK, as you see, there are two questions,
two columns with questions to people
who is answering one interpretation of the question
and another about the understanding of the option.
So here you have what we have or what people have interpreted
and in both cases, but as I mentioned,
one country said, okay, if data collection is automatic
or manually, is it good?
But another country answer the evidence
of why they are answering those option.
So here you have information about both topics.
So this is something, in this case, intent.
I think we have answer A,
and I don't really see that we are in A,
not in A intent.
So those are the questions that we have to review,
but it's needed more,
because I explained that it needed more information,
or more detailed information,
and a clear explanation,
or I don't know, maybe some examples or so on,
in order to clarify concepts and to clarify people,
what clear to answer on each option.
Okay. Oh, here you have, I can share with everybody.
Another thinking I have is related to the ways maybe
the warmest part is--
- No, no, no.
- Sure, see.
- Sorry, can I make a question?
- Sure.
- For example, when your team answer option A,
you mean that, for example, I don't know,
in the alarm filtering or in the solution implementation.
You mean that all alarm filtering,
so all the processes that involves
alarm filtering and all the processes
that involve solution implementation are in option A,
or it is done, I don't know, one process is in option A.
Or one of all the alarm filter is in option A,
or a couple of alarm filter is not all of that.
But as you mean, because this is just a full management, so we are managing alarms from...
Okay, we have...
In just case, an alarm filter, by example.
We are filtering with tools all of the alarms.
Okay, all of the alarms.
If a PR is new alarms, because they are new equipment, of course, we have to...
to be again. But now we are covering this topic 100% automatic. My opinion or what I
say the people is, okay, nobody can justify 100% okay, but you are covering 90%, 90%,
percent is okay.
Okay.
And this one, Pedro.
It's a subjective question. So it's not for me it's more important if you are doing in the major part of the time.
I mean, almost 100.
Pedro, one question here, here you said the answer is A, but his interpretation, he says
he chose B.
Yes, because this is B, but the other two were A.
Oh, okay.
They didn't put their opinion, so I have to add all of the information here.
I see.
I see.
Okay.
I mean, here you see with the real, real, the events for monitoring now 90.5% just the
0.5% is handled by the monitoring.
So this is something that they are responding to answering B in one case in another two,
they are answering A and I think it's A because that.
Pedro, can I make one more, please?
Sure, you can.
In the Internet Driven solution, maybe we need to put in common the understanding of Internet
Driven.
Yeah.
You are right.
You are right.
It's impossible that we are in Maine, okay?
This is one of the other answers I have put with the point.
Yeah, with the point.
because I think it's impossible.
But I mentioned another exercise I would like to do here
is okay, I give you the question and your response,
you answer that.
Why?
Because my thinking is to have this tool
in order to be used as an auditor or by an auditor
or by a consultancy company,
or Team Forum or whatever, but a kind of constant tense.
So this is something that we are giving people
from these responsible from teams.
And okay, here are the question I answered that,
and then I can help you, but in the first step,
they have to answer by the execution.
This is, this was my idea.
- I think regarding this intent, clearly,
So the understanding of the options,
the rules are predefined on the form management design
and the action is automatically executed.
So anything that is automatically executed,
I guess they've taken it as it is
because it's automatically executed is fully automated.
But the actual generation of the,
of the entangle or when things change it,
it's not automated, right?
The rules needs to be defined previously.
So I guess the understanding of these,
the intent-driven question is probably not the same
by everybody in this call, I guess.
- Yeah, I think maybe Fernando, we could,
as we suggest, we could, like when we have this kind
of a question or we're not sure,
we form a task force to set this
and then bring back the recommendation.
Maybe intent is one of the topic
that we could form a task force to go and discuss
and bring back the recommendation.
- Yeah, indeed.
- Yeah, so in this course,
so we didn't have to get a solution,
you see how we just identified the area,
we do not have the agreement
and then we go and study them separately.
So intent is one of them, right?
- Yeah, right.
I think it's a difficult topic to understand just for us, so people who have never known
about that, so it's very difficult to understand.
Yeah, yeah.
I can show you also the same question for, or for call, okay?
As I mentioned, we have moved the weights
because we have only answered until execution
have not a concept for questions of stability.
Stability.
Okay, but here you have, okay, I'm going to,
I don't know if you see.
Here, the same.
In our case, we have this domain less automated than run and it's giving us a more autonomy
level.
This is something that's so strange for us,
but in the thing we have answered,
and I have put all the comments that they have put here.
All the data, all correlation,
there's one country that are said it could be A,
so there are a lot of doubts about that.
But here you have our answer.
Out here, I think this is an error on the template.
This is a, this task is about the diagnosis, okay?
But in the template, we put the medication and location in both fields.
But it has been answered in the right way because the question,
>> Following the question.
In the same way, I see failure recovery,
solution and decision, maybe we are in C,
but in the vocation we are in B.
Because of what I see during last year.
>> From itself.
>> Sure. Yes?
So here you have the aurora soles, aurora valuation, and whatever you need.
I'll send to you and you can analyze whatever you need.
And also I'll share the slides if you...
Pedro, so here, do you have the evidence?
Or you collected but not just not showing here?
No, no, no.
This is something, this is all of the information I have collected.
Okay.
In fact, someone, I don't remember the country, but I think she said that they see, she said
They see them put evidence because they understand because she understood the question.
So this is something that, okay, to deploy the, to develop this pilot is a bit difficult
to ask people, to arrive people in the companies, in the operation, day by day operations because
they are so easy. And this is something that we have to do or to ask for in the
rest of time. And it's a bit difficult to have all the information in the way of
we need actually. Okay. When you launch a consultancy pilot or a consultancy project, then they have to do that in their job.
but now it's just,
some hand they are giving me or giving us.
So, this is all the information I could gather.
- Okay.
Okay.
So I have one question.
If you go back to your slides.
Yeah.
Next.
Yeah, this page.
So the question is on the red bullet button here, different value from a different value
from expected.
Can you explain more about this item?
Sure.
Sure.
We are involved in this autonomous network since I think two years ago.
And in the same way we are doing this pilot or this autonomy level assessment now, we
have done from the beginning in our company, we have done our own measurement of automation
and autonomy level.
And those KIPAs are KIPAs that are being followed by our CTIO.
and this is inside our operations behavior.
I mean, every operations group has to,
or is following this KPA,
every operation group has to improve the KPA
during the years.
So this is something that we are doing
our own measurement.
And this is because we have, every quarter,
we have a value for autonomy level.
And we are evaluated in some way,
and somehow each process for that.
And in case of run, we are in a higher level of 288
from our opinion, from our measurement authority.
and in the in the same of code we are lower than two nine.
So this is because it's a bit different
this evaluation when with,
we expect or with the value that we expected for each one.
Because we are doing the same exercise of course.
- Okay, understand.
- I'm not meaning this is one is better or not.
I think it's just a conclusion for us also.
- But you also mentioned that,
do you know you have more automation on the run,
but you're getting a better autonomy level on the core.
So, at least this seems to be something wrong.
- Yeah.
So if I look at the run,
since the intent now given a A, right?
So intent given A.
So in reality, maybe probably it's a B
because A, at this original design,
you have to kind of a level four
to reach A, the kind of a level intent driven.
So if that's a B and then the score actually even lower.
- Yeah. - For REN.
- I have a question.
So for the intent here, if we select A,
That means we use the intent and interface,
which are defined by the RTOs, right?
- No, the question that does not say that, Wanyin.
So maybe we need to clarify or modify the question.
But the question that does not specifically mention
to use an intent API for an SDO.
In this case, if it's run or wireless,
it should have been a 3GPP maybe.
But the question that doesn't--
He doesn't say that explicitly, you don't know.
- Okay. - Okay, thank you.
- So according to telephonic understanding, if the task,
again, Pedro, Kerwin and Rumba,
if the task were automatically executed
or understood by the system, for then that was the,
the full intent, or it was an alien.
- Yeah, yeah. - That's right.
- And I, and I don't know, I think, sorry, sorry.
- No, no, no, no, no, no.
- I think we have some is that both of our,
methodology is almost impossible to arrive for. Without including in all the processes
artificial intelligence, okay? And the scale of TM forum and the definition, I don't know
what the number of the document but they the document explained that this
intelligence is is is needed in level four I understand that after the
intelligence is before level four because I think from level three because
if not it's impossible to arrive to level four with with with the process and
and technology and applications and so on to
pay the intelligence on the process.
But with news methodology,
I think it's more and more very,
very difficult to arrive at level four.
For me it's impossible to answer all of the questions.
I have noticed the question what are needed
to answer in order to our level four.
But what I mean is I think we have to review
or give more detail with the oceans,
but also we need to review the score
and the evaluation methodology
to align the definition of each level
with the response of our tool.
Yeah. So in also, I see that Asian scurries hand up. Yes, federal thanks for presentation. And just, I would like to remind you a few weeks back, and I had to say, and then concern them that we had a very good conversation this round. So I think one of the limitation that we can see and then you raise also this very good. So the level, the expectation that you,
that you as the owner of the automation has in the one of the CSV, maybe you think that
is a limitation that we can see once we talk about level four more in the cross domain and the type
of the question that we have for example I'm talking about the RAM or core is more we are
focusing the single domain but based on the definition that we have or the standardization
that we have in TM4 and once we are in the level four is more in the cross domain so that's why
we could not see the result here based on the expectation or do you think that on top of this
questionnaire that we have for random core and then if we want to evaluate if we are in level
four or not we need to have kind of umbrella on top of this tool to say if we have cross-domain
random core and we are in level four because I fully understand what you say and then it was my
expectation that we could not go above level three and then based on the theory we should not go
because if you are level four which means that or question should cover cross domain rather than
on single domain. I think it's one of the limitations that we can see and was very good example that
you shared here. Folio are with you but in this case we need to define as I mentioned in my
conclusions, we need to define some topics or some whatever
align with each level in order to say, okay, you are with this,
this, this value to two or three, whatever. But if if we if you
are not a multi domain, you are not you are not allowed to pass
to level four, something that you can check in order to configure your level three, level
four or whatever. Then maybe a kind of umbrella as you mentioned.
So mandatory level capabilities, something that you must have in other countries.
Kind of, yes. Because it's so difficult to do that.
Right.
And then one additional topic, do you think that here we are only talking about one use
cases and imagine we bring more use cases in the RAM?
I mean, I just want to challenge the wrong.
If the method that we have or a scoring should be applied from beginning or at the end of
few question or few use cases, then we can say in terms of the RAM beyond level three
or in terms of the cross domain RAM and core beyond level four.
somehow understand that this is score or this value that you're showing here is
only for single use cases. For autonomous network we have more than
10 of 20 use cases, depending on the domain.
These were specifically for fault management from the start.
Yeah, upper consistency. I think we need to move on to Telecom Argentina if that's okay.
Okay, no problem.
But we can...
Pedro, sorry, one more question please.
In the phone management, in the course,
the course prediction, the question regarding the risk prediction
and phone prediction, that's one.
Okay.
And rule four.
Rule four.
Yes, that one.
you take it, taking account the capability of the network elements or the capability of the phone management?
No, phone management. We are...
Okay.
We are evaluating the process, not just the capability of each network element or even the element.
We are trying to use as much as possible the capabilities a network element manager gives to us.
but it's for the whole process.
- Okay, thank you.
Because in our case, so now if you want,
we can change.
First of all, sorry, because we didn't know,
this is our first time participating in a pilot
or an experience like this one.
So we didn't have clear about the dynamics,
or so we didn't make a presentation,
but right now I write some lines with our conclusions.
So let me share it.
And then we can see directly the spreadsheets.
- No, don't worry, I have a problem.
- Okay.
I did that because I have to explain to my boss and so on so just to put it on just one time.
Okay you put the very height.
No no no no.
Full presentation Pedro.
Yeah thank you.
Let me share.
It's a level five presentation that one.
Yes.
Okay.
Can you see my screen?
Come in and get with it.
Okay.
Sorry, this is just a couple of lines that I just write it.
So, Pedro, I take some ideas from your presentation.
So, the first topic that we find is, well, we need to find the refer person in the company
company to answer the questionnaire. So that takes to us between two weeks to find the
correct person. But then after we have the answers, we are not sure if they were the
right people. Why? Because after reviewing the questionnaire, in my case, I think that
maybe it was not very clear whether they had finally understand.
I think that they don't understand completely the things that they much evaluate.
So they take the spreadsheet, they read what the spreadsheet says,
and they answer as they understand.
Then when we take the spreadsheet, we see all the reference, all the 3GPP reference,
and when you go inside the reference, maybe you can find that the question has the goal
to evaluate another thing, not the first reading and understanding that the spreadsheet says.
So for one comment is that we have our answers that our people gave us, but I don't know
know if that okay because the first version was like very optimistic response. So if we
so some question we change. Nicolas, Damian and me some of that question we change it
because we know that we are not for example in the in the level A in the level four so
we change it.
Yes, let me add something in line with that. What happened to us was, depending on who
interpreted the dust, the interpretation was slightly different. For example, some experts
on the topic that we consulted didn't have advanced knowledge of the autonomy levels.
and perhaps the answer in the questionary is in more practical way without taking into
account the concept for example in closed loop or in 10 etc.
It is one problem that we detected with that.
Okay, any question?
Yeah.
But other side, in the question that we need to get evidence until now, we haven't.
So we could not get evidence until now.
So for example, in the questions that the answer is A or B, maybe we need to go deeper
to get the evidence. For other side, we found the ranked evaluation form, the spreadsheet
easier or understandably than the core one. For us, it was easier than the ranked one
than the core one. And for other side, we do not focus on the numerical value of the
evaluation of the result, we focus on what was understood from the spreadsheets. Okay?
So right now, maybe we can go to the wrong one first. For example, this is the question that
I did you better. For example, in the intent drive-in, we know that our fault management
doesn't work by intentions. So in this question, for example, in this row, we put what we understand
that the question is a goal of the question. For example, in this question, we put that the aim is
to know if the fault management system can work by generating tasks to solve problems and evaluate
the result of SACE implementation. So basically it works by intentions. So in this question,
for us, is the answer C. And I don't know, I have the other ones, I don't know if the
goal of this space is to see all what we understand of the question or anything else. But for
For example, in some questions we have some suggestions.
Let me see.
All these questions are answered
regarding the fault management in the run spreadsheet.
But in the core mobile spreadsheet,
we answered some question regarding the fault management
and others regarding directly the capabilities
of the network elements.
But for example, in this question,
the, let me see.
Maybe I can.
- Just a question from Paulo.
What do you mean with the capabilities of the network element
because the network elements,
I mean, if you have the capabilities in the environment,
then you have these capabilities in the process.
- Yes, exactly.
But for example,
I switch the spreadsheet.
for example, in the the market location here said directory,
what capability of fault diagnosis are support
by the core network?
Very fine, the fault diagnosis capability
of the management system,
but the assignment option is the core network.
I don't know if this one, let me see.
- No, maybe one up.
- Maybe.
- Because this is the error I,
- No.
- Before this question about the analysis
and the previous one is about.
Let me see.
What?
Yeah, yeah.
There is a reference in option B and C,
there's a reference on network elements.
See, this one.
This case, okay.
This question, "Is it a very helpful and a wide course
support proactive prevention capabilities?"
But the first answer in this question was,
I don't know, C or B.
But then when we go inside these norms,
we see that talks about directly capabilities
of the network elements.
And I think when I ask if our network elements has
that capabilities or the people doesn't know if we have it
or the answer now directly.
So in this case, or maybe we can change the question
but we understand that in this case,
talk directly about the network elements,
not about the fault management.
>> To be honest, my intention is to evaluate the process.
>> Yeah.
>> When you think that the network element has capabilities,
then they are in our complete process.
>> Hi, Pedro.
We think in that way too,
but we have some experience in relating some process related
process related to a specific and services process following the
suggestion of TM Forum about the three axes.
You know, when we evaluate overall, we find it more challenging to find the balance
because we don't have all the process at the same level of autonomy.
So here we have a lot of process in the core for the management, right?
So it's a challenge for us to understand, okay, what is the right level?
Because some processes are more autonomous than others.
But we were talking about the network element level.
So let me be provocative here.
So my understanding is that I can have a full capability on the network element level.
But if I'm not using this capability, my autonomy level is close to the ground, right?
So obviously the network level elements is an enabler in a way, right?
Because if the elements cannot, so to say, follow up with the execution of the process
then so what, right?
But on the other hand, the autonomous levels, we are only achieving on the higher levels,
I mean the OSS layer, etc., and above, right?
The execution, the systems which are supporting to drive the process.
That's why I'm thinking that we are judging the network elements, then we are down to
judging the vendors here because one vendor will have the capability and another one will
not.
So at the end of the day, what we as TM Forum, we try to avoid this, right?
We are not trying to say this vendor is better than the other vendor.
We are talking about the operations.
Yes, that's right.
Maybe we say in a wrong way that was the problem because in some cases the capability that
the neural element has and we use in the process and in other cases not.
So that was our problem.
Anyway you are using from the neural element but in the process in that.
So the process is covering that.
And just like what you mean, in fact, we are using our evaluation methodology divided by
vendors and we are using that to press any vendor to improve the automation and autonomy
in our network.
So we are using the behavior at high level in order to improve the automation at low
level in the network.
Well, yeah, exactly.
So in this question, in this question again, and for conclude, our management system can
make for example, you know, fix rules or something or things like that.
So manually configuration of rules and make file prediction.
But if we go to the 3CPP standards, we see that in this case, talk about the network
element.
So I understand that you say that we evaluate like that.
So maybe we need to change it.
But this is an exercise.
Sorry, just one, I guess this is another one of those items that we may need to have a
smaller task for to identify so everybody answers with the same view, whether we're
looking at the process or we're looking at the network elements.
Yeah.
Exactly.
Sorry, continue.
So that is a reason because I mentioned this point, Fandok.
Yeah, of course.
For example, let me see because we put another comment in this one.
The data collection and alarm correlation.
This question is inquiring about the degree of failure related information can be collected and correlated with respect to some specific network elements.
elements. The issue is to verify the automatic failure detection capacity of the management
system and the correlation, uh, along correlation capacity. So in this case, if we see all together,
we see that we are in point C, but we understand that maybe this answer can, the answer can divide
because one thing is data filtering and other thing is the correlation. So in our case, for
For example, for the island field, we are in option A and in correlation we are in option
B. But if we see it together, we have not the capacity to make.
So it's not the same.
Okay.
Let me see.
I fully agree with you in that case.
are very very different topics to be included together.
The other one in the 11th row maybe.
11th?
11th, yes.
The understanding of the auction.
This one, Dabian?
Yes, yes.
In that one day, he's talking about the disaster recovery capability and the response is based
on the capability of the mobile net and core, right?
How are each system has different characteristics and this evaluation should be done service
by service because we don't have the same level of the redundancy depending on the system
because some systems are more important than others.
So it's not all the system have the same redundancy level.
It's the same that the other question
is depending on the service.
- Okay, let me check something else.
We have more comments.
This question is in Quorum.
Freedom Recovery Solution Foundation.
Well, here we have the same one.
Here we put the answer
regarding the network element capabilities.
So this one, I think that we need to change it.
If we all agree that we are talking generally
about the fault management and not
Regarding the network elements, we need to change this.
Sorry, Campolo, I'm conscious that we only have three more minutes.
We always knew that 25 minutes wasn't going to be enough to discuss each one of these
questionnaires.
So, I think, as mentioned, can you please, Campolo, and Pedro, send your questionnaires
while I'm and as much is available along with putting online so I guess people
need to provide comments on online otherwise yes yes that would be great but
like I said at the beginning I wasn't knew how was this presentation are going
to be so I would like to prepare the only question or the the doubts that we
have, okay? Maybe for the next meeting, I don't know when, but I will let you put in order
all the questions that we have, if it is possible, okay?
Yeah, that's perfectly fine. But also in addition, obviously maybe I will discuss, Pedro and Andy and
I should discuss, we need to create this task force. I think we will invite people to join the task
force, at least we need to do two, one for the intent, we know that answering the intent,
we've seen that it's really completely off between how telephonic answer and how telecon
answer, and also regarding are we asking about the whole of the process or just any specific.
So I want to check with that how we want to do this.
One more, sorry Fernando, very quickly.
For example, this question in the round one,
the solution generation evaluation
and decision making and solution implementation
for the both question could be the same case.
For example, we will have one case
that is the possible solution is that
to solve the problem, we need remote hands.
So in that case, the solution for default management
must be or could be generate a work order.
So that kind of case are going to take in this evaluation
because in that case when we need remote hands,
the evaluation and decision making
is regarding to generate a work order.
And implementation of the solution implementation
is what set the work order.
because the solution of the problem is,
it's not regarding to the system, it's remote work.
You take my point, Fernando.
- So when you say remote work, you mean manual work, right?
People feel engineered. - Human work.
Human work.
There are tasks that always will be made by humans.
So in that case, the solution that the system could give us
is make the work order.
- Yeah, make the work order and send it to the field engineer
whoever needs to implement it. Yeah, exactly. That's all level of automation that we can have.
Exactly. Well, my question in this point is, for example, in our case, we already have that.
We already have that kind of solution, but not another kind of solution of automatic solution.
So my question is, okay, in my case, it's not no, because we have that, the work order solution,
But maybe partially it's a lot because I don't know it's a very few.
I don't know.
Well, it's only a comment for not know.
Well, that's all.
And if it is if it is possible for the next meeting, maybe I can
prepare our doubts and our conclusions.
Yeah, that would be good.
And also a two more suggestion.
One is in your network. Can you specify it's a single vendor network or multi vendor network?
So that will help us to understand
Uh, okay, you know if you're a single vendor, maybe your level should be higher a little bit higher
Multi vendor. So our network will have multi vendors
Depending on in some case, but generally we have multi vendors
but the fault management is adopting the vendor.
The fault management is high level,
and we see all for our fault management.
- Okay, yeah, just to put that,
and also for the people who answer the questionnaire,
maybe you could list their job function.
Are they the knock engineer,
or are they the foreman for a particular domain
or something like that,
that could also help us to understand
Yeah, I understand the people who answered the questions.
I think we did a run out of time.
Pero, Pablo and the rest of the telecom Argentina team. Thank you very much.
I knew we were going to run out of time, but I didn't realize there are so many questions around the table that are really about with three or four hours, rather than one.
But I can also ask all the CSPs please send us the dates where you're planning to do your
presentations. For next week Juan Pardo you can just present your questions and then I think
currently we have a CTC planned for next week. Hopefully there will be additional CSPs. And as
I say I will discuss in Tel Aviv and the and Pedro how we're going to organize the task forces
and invite people for those task forces.
Okay.
So thank you.
What were we, we,
a blow out the fights?
Just send them to Alan Pope for the time being.
Alan will organize the space.
Okay, okay.
Well, thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Yeah, thank you.
You're really great.
Bye.
Thank you.
Bye-bye.
Bye-bye.
Thank you all.
Very good.
Very enlightening.
Thank you.
[SOUND]
(buzzing)
